Program Description
The Master of Science in Computer Science and Information Technology (MCST) program is designed to equip graduates with the skills necessary for careers in computer science and information technology. This program combines a solid foundation in traditional computer science with practical courses in information technology, equipping students with the expertise to develop and manage technology-driven solutions for a variety of information needs. Furthermore, the curriculum highlights communication and leadership skills that are essential for success in corporate and government settings.

To accommodate working professionals, most courses are held in the evening. The program takes place at Winston-Salem State University in the state-of-the-art Elva J. Jones Computer Science Building. This multi-million-dollar facility offers advanced instructional infrastructure, including computer labs, specialized research labs, departmental servers, faculty and graduate offices, and dedicated student study areas.

Mission
The Master of Science in Computer Science and Information Technology program aims to equip graduates with the knowledge and skills necessary for careers in computer science and information technology. Graduates will be prepared for roles in systems development and support, network administration, database administration, information resource management, and other technology roles. 

Learning Outcomes
Upon successful completion of the MS in Computer Science and Information Technology program, students will exhibit the following student learning outcomes:

Graduates will show evidence of a strong foundation of core computer science knowledge, including architecture, operating systems, and algorithms;
Graduates will show evidence of mastery of graduate level concepts associated with a selected concentration in computer science or information technology;
Graduates will exhibit the ability to conduct an independent capstone activity that will produce an original work in the field (thesis for the computer science concentration or project for the information technology concentration).
Admission Requirements
An earned baccalaureate degree in a related field from an accredited college or university. In lieu of a baccalaureate degree in a related field, evidence of prerequisite coursework or equivalent experience in computer science and information technology core areas.
Official application and application fee (see graduate admissions for the current fee amount, https://www.wssu.edu/about/offices-and-departments/student-accounts/winston-salem-state-university-tuition-and-fees.html.
Official transcript from each institution where undergraduate or graduate work was completed
Official report of GRE scores—General exam is optional.
Three recommendation forms and/or letters (at least two from faculty/advisors/counselors and one from a practicing professional)
A written personal statement (essay describing professional goals, experience, and research interests)
Resume reflecting work-relevant experience
Documentation of prior learning that satisfies program prerequisite knowledge (in lieu of prerequisite courses—for applicants who do not hold the BS in computer science)
International applicants must submit a Sponsor’s Affidavit, Financial Certification and an Intent to Enroll Form
International applicants whose native language is not English must submit a Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) score of at least 550 (80 in the new test). Non-native English speakers with international transcripts, regardless of U.S. citizenship, must demonstrate proficiency in the English language. Applicants may present a satisfactory score on the TOEFL language proficiency test. The minimum required TOEFL score varies depending on the format of the exam taken (Internet-based = 79, or paper-based = 550). An equivalent IELTS score of 6.5 (no part is below 6.5). The English language proficiency requirement may be waived if the applicant holds a degree from a university in a country where English is the official language.
Application Deadlines
 	Fall semester	Spring semester
Domestic students	May 1st	October 1st
International students	April 1st	September 1st
Virtual Information Session
6:30 PM, First Wednesday of September
6:30 PM, First Wednesday of April
Please register for the next session here.

Transfer Credits
Subject to the approval of the Department of Computer Science, up to six (6) semester hours of graduate transfer credit may be applied towards the MS in Computer Science and Information Technology degree. Graduate transfer credit will only be granted for courses completed with a grade of “B” or better. Transfer credit should be requested at the time of admission to the program.

Degree/Option Requirements
The MS in Computer Science and Information Technology requires 30 to 33 credit hours. A minor is not required. Students must maintain an overall grade point average of 3.0 (a “B” average). No more than two grades of “C” may be earned in the program.

Students pursuing an MS in Computer Science and Information Technology must choose one of the following concentrations along with the corresponding culminating activity (project, thesis, or exam) for that concentration:

Concentration	
Core

(Credit hours)

Required

(Credit hours)

Elective

(Credit hours)

Other requirements

(Credit hours)

Total Requirements
Thesis	9	9	6	Thesis research with a written research report and presentation	30
6
Project	9	9	12	Project work with a written report and presentation	33
3
Exam	9	9	15	Comprehensive exam on the content of the MCST core and required courses	33
0

Degree Requirements for MCST 

Time Limits for Completion
The MS in Computer Science and Information Technology program can be completed within two years of full-time study. A student may not take longer than six years to complete the curriculum.

Progression Requirements
Students in the MS in Computer Science and Information Technology program must maintain an overall grade point average of 3.0 (“B” average). No more than two grades of “C” may be earned in the program.


Program Contact
Jacqueline Bethea
Elva Jones Computer Science Building, Room 4211
Phone: (336)750-2478
Email: betheaj@wssu.edu

Course of Study
Concentration: Thesis, Project, and Exam 
Thesis core courses: CST 5320 - Design and Analysis of Algorithms Methods 

CST 5322 - Advanced Software Engineering 

CST 6306 - Advanced Database Management Systems

Thesis required courses: CST 5320 - Design and Analysis of Algorithms Methods 

CST 6301 - Advanced Computer Architecture

CST 6302 - Programming Languages and Compilers 

Thesis other required courses: CST 6601- Master’s Thesis Research 

Project core courses: None 

Project required courses: CST 5325 - Electronic Commerce Technology 

CST 5328 - Computer Networks 

CST 6305 - Internet Technology Systems 

Project other required courses: CST 6312 - Master’s Project 

Exam core courses: None 

Exam required courses: Pick one of these courses - CST 5320 - Design and Analysis of Algorithms Methods 

CST 6301 - Advanced Computer Architecture

CST 6302 - Programming Languages and Compilers 

CST 5325 - Electronic Commerce Technology 

CST 5328 - Computer Networks 

CST 6305 - Internet Technology Systems 

Exam other required courses: None 

The following elective courses are for all 3 concentrations (Thesis, Project, Exam)
CST 5101 - Computer Science Graduate Orientation

CST 5130 - Special Topics 

CST 5301 - Parallel Computing 

CST 5302 - Organization of Programming Language 

CST 5303 - Software Design and Development 

CST 5304 - Database Systems Design 

CST 5305 - Advanced Computer Graphics 

CST 5306 - System Simulation and Modeling 

CST 5307 - Introduction to Automata, Formal Languages and Computability 

CST 5308 - Systems Design and Development 

CST 5309 - Computer Communication Networks 

CST 5316 - Foundations of Data Analytics 

CST 5323 - Systems Concepts 

CST 5324 - Information Technology Ethics, Policy, & Privacy 

CST 5326 - Human-Computer Interaction 

CST 5329 - Internet Protocols 

CST 5330 - Distributed and Parallel Computing 

CST 5331 - Software Testing and Quality Assurance 

CST 5332 - Computational Methods for Biotechnology Systems 

CST 5333 - Scientific Visualization and Image Processing 

CST 5334 - Fundamentals of Geographic Information Systems 

CST 5335 - Cryptography 

CST 5340 - Hardware and Media Security 

CST 5350 - Intelligent Information Organization & Retrieval 

CST 6000 - Master’s Examination 

CST 6130 - IT Project 

CST 6303 - Artificial Intelligence Methods 

CST 6304 - Principles of Information Technology 

CST 6307 - Data Mining 

CST 6308 - Network Design, Performance and Evaluation 

CST 6309 - Network Security 

CST 6310 - Neural Networks 

CST 6311 - GIS Technologies 

CST 6314 - Big Data Analytics 

CST 6320 - Data Visualization 

CST 7130 - Project/Thesis Extension 
